
Nutrition is the process of eating and absorbing food that your body needs for nourishment. It involves breaking down food into nutrients. Nutrients are chemical substances your body needs to function. But this essential process does much more than that. For example:

Research shows proper nutrition can reduce your risk for diabetes, heart disease and stroke
It supports the healing process whether you’re recovering from surgery, a cold or a case of stomach flu
Experts are exploring the influence that nutrition may have on mental health

Nutrition contains two types they are
1. Macronutrients
2. Micronutrients

Macronutrients
If your body was a building, macronutrients would be the foundation. Macronutrients are your main source of energy. Macronutrients are:
1. Carbohydrates 
2. Lipids 
3. Proteins

Micronutrients
Micronutrients include essential vitamins and minerals. You need fewer micronutrients than macronutrients, but they’re still very important.

Vitamins are substances that animals and plants make. The food you eat is your main source of most vitamins. Many people take a multivitamin to make sure they’re getting all the vitamins they need. You may recognize some vitamin names, like vitamin A, vitamin C or vitamin D. Others may not be so familiar. But they all contribute to your health. The following are essential vitamins:
1. Vitamin A 
2. Vitamins B1 – 12 
3. Vitamin C 
4. Vitamin D 
5. Vitamin K 

Minerals make their way into food via the animals that eat them and the plants that absorb them. Animals and plants provide minerals. These substances support your health in many ways. The following minerals are micronutrients:
1. Calcium 
2. Chromium 
3. Copper 
4. Iron 
5. Magnesium 
6. Manganese 
7. Phosphorus 
8. Potassium
9. Selenium 
10. Sodium 
11. Zinc 

Food Groups
The long list of macronutrients and micronutrients come together in the five food groups that make up the balanced meals you need to have good nutrition:

1. Dairy
2. Fruit
3. Grains
4. Protein
5. Vegetables